Let's finish exploring threat modeling by
taking a look at real-world scenarios.
This time, we'll use a standard threat
modeling process called PASTA.
Imagine that a fitness company is getting
ready to launch their first mobile app.
Before we can go live,
the company asks their security team to
ensure the app will protect customer data.
The team decides to perform a threat
model using the PASTA framework.
PASTA is a popular threat modeling
framework that's used across many
industries.
PASTA is short for Process for
Attack Simulation and Threat Analysis.
There are seven stages
of the PASTA framework.
Let's go through each of them to help
this fitness company get their app ready.
Stage one of the PASTA threat model
framework is to define business and
security objectives.
Before starting the threat model, the team
needs to decide what their goals are.
The main objective in our example
with the fitness company app is
protecting customer data.
The team starts by asking a lot
of questions at this stage.
They'll need to understand
things like how personally
identifiable information is handled.
Answering these questions is
a key to evaluate the impact
of threats that they'll
find along the way.
Stage two of the PASTA framework is
to define the technical scope.
Here, the team's focus is to identify
the application components that must be
evaluated.
This is what we discussed
earlier as the attack surface.
For a mobile app,
this will include technology that's
involved while data is at rest and in use.
This includes network protocols, security
controls, and other data interactions.
At stage three of PASTA, the team's
job is to decompose the application.
In other words,
we need to identify the existing controls
that will protect user data from threats.
This normally means working with the
application developers to produce a data
flow diagram.
A diagram like this will show how data
gets from a user's device to the company's
database.
It would also identify the controls in
place to protect this data along the way.
Stage four of PASTA is next.
The focus here is to
perform a threat analysis.
This is where the team gets
into their attacker mindset.
Here, research is done to collect the most
up-to-date information on the type of
attacks being used.
Like other technologies,
mobile apps have many attack vectors.
These change regularly, so the team would
reference resources to stay up-to-date.
Stage five of PASTA is performing
a vulnerability analysis.
In this stage,
the team more deeply investigates
potential vulnerabilities by
considering the root of the problem.
Next is stage six of PASTA, where
the team conducts attack modeling.
This is where the team tests
the vulnerabilities that were analyzed
in stage five by simulating attacks.
The team does this by creating an attack
tree, which looks like a flow chart.
For example, an attack tree for
our mobile app might look like this.
Customer information, like user names and
passwords, is a target.
This data is normally
stored in a database.
We've learned that databases are
vulnerable to attacks like SQL injection.
So we will add this attack
vector to our attack tree.
A threat actor might exploit
vulnerabilities caused by unsanitized
inputs to attack this vector.
The security team uses attack trees
like this to identify attack vectors
that need to be tested
to validate threats.
This is just one branch
of this attack tree.
An application, like a fitness app,
typically has lots of branches with
a number of other attack vectors.
Stage seven of PASTA is to
analyze risk and impact.
Here, the team assembles all
the information they've collected in
stages one through six.
By this stage, the team is in
position to make informed risk
management recommendations to business
stakeholders that align with their goals.
And with that, we made it all the way
through a threat modeling exercise based
on the PASTA framework!